and bodhisattva practices but in fact I
would have nothing to say beyond what
the members had already said I wouldn't
even know how to say anything above that
but since Rome but she also needs to get
some rest and that's on the program I
will just share a little bit and go a
little bit over those 37 practices is
that the modern world what a monomial is
and touch it and said Chancellor all the
questions I work Aegina so it begins
this animal Akash where I am and Rakesh
waria refers to generate a code so it's
an amateur prostration to Isaac Genesis
account is another countenance of
Krishna watch what they don't eat and
over the money but the nearest or
astonishing Dominique never told her
history what
Dominique's new toy is Linda wanted a
Drama Theatre in Girona
so duty not to torture is personal
Genesis the tank Reuben Martin was just
watching his own generals H IRA concern
was to Miriam Sapiro DNA first some
gentleman's idiot
questioner of sable cuz I don't mind
addition control me but Tom Banerjee
today some Jonathan energy about that
one indeed any other song directed
toward us sending us questions array so
then it says so while seeing that so
here this year is Chenrezig and so while
seeing that all phenomena neither come
go you strive solely for the sake of all
beings the first line here while seeing
that all phenomena neither come nor go
that refers to his realization of the
empty nature of all phenomena and then a
striving solely for the sake of all
beings that is his striving for the sake
of all sentient beings throughout the
six periods of day and night and it was
actually generate six commitment his vow
to not attain complete enlightenment
until all of samsara is emptied so he
appears in the form of Bodhisattva
acting for the benefit of sentient
beings for as long as they exist so
these two kind of clauses in one
sentence represent the union of
emptiness and compassion so seeing that
phenomena neither come nor gone
the first tomb their realization of
emptiness the Dharmakaya that is beyond
coming and going so that's the empty
aspect and then striving solely for the
sake of all beings
that's the compassion aspect so this
sentence represents the union of
emptiness and compassion Tyrian single
room could be Chancellor llama llama at
all yummy Geneva what I think awesome
Chris I wasn't and I'll do Luke which
antioxidants are under the atomic want a
chance in my you something go some quick
what a chance is what Illinois not on
the original tangible Java cetera what
about you what jalopy China so Giudice
jewelry cantata
this gentleman Medina Giambi on
Chancellor's divine items in chambers
Chancellor's Tendo Deena subject
ranchers about the Chancellor's and you
know Sonia Roy has an
but that's it tell us about the chart in
acts 15 Xena the chilliest in duty
simple Chancellors your channel name is
Jaime and shot arrows OMG chambers
entrepreneurs do you is what is empty no
chance heroes the gym evoke general
touches on days enter convicted image
she was a tomboy
Adam Tucker in attendance a chances
holiday analogy LC general standard
which nao se llaman does maharaja did
not support religious ancien régime
churches and 100 on chopper chaves
chaves idiotic arizona Don Giovanni
Donna de la atención de la mort go to
beach hamdullah martinez yummy better
chance in Cantabria educate also current
senator that the today to normal sanam
Johnny Carson three occupy Oh Sarah Tea
Party me on the swatch in Jalandhar
what a centrist say Hawaii oh sorry and
then says supreme guru and protector
tune Rezac at all times I respectfully
pay homage to you with my body speech
and mind so here supreme guru and
protector Chenrezig we are here seeing
that the Ventana root coral and un'goro
as indivisible from Chenrezig and so
then we pay homage
we prostrate with our three doors of
body speech and mind so we offer
physical prostration and verbally we
supplicate and with our mind we
cultivate devotion inspiration and so
now i'm according to the scriptures
this is in relation to
custom a customary beginning of a
scripture so there is a custom of
beginning text with words of homage and
also then those scriptures that were
translated from the Indian language
brought from India they were there was
also a certain about certain words of
homage in the beginning and then also
some words of commitment of completing
them the translation so for example
there's three scripture collections that
have been translated and so the abbe
Dharma teachings the vinaya teachings
and the Sutra teachings and in the
beginning of all the abhidhamma
teachings there is an homage to
manjushri in the beginning of the Vinaya
teachings there is an homage an homage
to the omniscient one and in the
beginning of all the Sutra teachings as
an homage to the Buddha's and
Bodhisattvas and so the Sutra teachings
for example there's an homage to
Buddha's and Bodhisattvas because the
way in which those sutras are laid out
is in the question answer format between
the police out for disciples and the
Buddha and so forth so that's very as an
homage to the Buddha's and Bodhisattvas
and then the abbot Dharma teachings have
an homage to manjushri m-- some these
this field of the abhidharma knowledge
is act the scope the field of mantra
stream and in the in the Sutra teachings
that's our idea when I our teachings
there's an homage to the omniscient one
that is the Buddha
so these teachings are the scope of the
padam and so how this came about this
tradition of doing that it started with
the tibetan king trisong detsen he
actually decided that because in the in
the past before he decided that the
various translators would always begin
with an homage to their individual yidam
they
then of course there's all kinds of
hidden deities and so then the King
decided that this is how we will do it
this is format and there will only be
these three kinds of homage so that's
how that came about the translation of
those three scripture collections begin
with those three kinds of homage and so
then then there's also this commitment
to complete the composition or the
translation of this text and so it we
begin in this way may be so be the
answer they begin the composition of
this text in this way - first of all
receive blessings from in this case now
- qu Rome who is indivisible from
Chenrezig and so then once the blessings
of enter one's mind then through these
blessings then made these made his
composition be completed without any
obstacles so with stability not time to
drop in temperature drop in your watiam
is what does anyone give me some other
sungeun Shaikh that's not to terrorism
GT I'm alarmed neko atsume uncle wah
what did you miss there's always
anticipated you me
that's what Jesus was how much time she
would roll it that's Tammy - Tom the
unit is digital choose your mom would
you use the term was really short
question sorry let me see did you know
either way what you see are the dark
alleys and that's sort of Georgia so
tuna can answer honestly this also could
use jewelry
Kristina she wrote Psalm 132 that child
it was 40 holidays for yellow cones
should our lamb tomorrow October percent
over 100 cars and car loans due to
worries
Sanjay jim-dandy Roxy also do this and
then insanity by genre what in do that
Tambe streusel what individual that
Robin or Sanjay through summertime sure
that your majority is what is that son
Jesus Kenneth a ton of nobody else over
think it time choose from the chocolate
so then it's just the perfect Buddhist
source of all benefit and happiness
arise from having accomplished to true
Dharma so the Buddha said to be the
source of all benefit and happiness and
so that is the path that they have
walked to omniscience of Dharma is the
path that brings about all temporary
happiness and ultimate enlightenment and
so all of these good qualities come from
from this and therefore them it is the
source of all benefit and happiness and
the perfect Buddha's have attained this
data from nations as they attained the
state of enlightenment from having
practiced their holy Dharma this path
and so there are what this really means
the Dharma there are many different kind
of so say Dharma religions but here we
are speaking in space in particular
about the Buddha Dharma and this term
dharmam literally means that we are
transforming our faults by looking
inward by looking inward we are
transforming our own mind and that's
different than some other religions that
are more facing outward and for example
attribute the creation of all phenomenal
existence to a Creator God for example
so they say that there is this God this
Creator God who has created all of
existence but they don't really actually
go into explaining the true nature of
all phenomena and so within Buddhism we
are
not looking outward but in Word and in
this way realize the nature of things
and the Buddha had said completely tame
your own mind this is the Buddha's
teaching so that's really the Buddha's
teaching and this is then how this state
of omniscience the state of Buddhahood
is attained
so as Buddhist practitioners this is
what we accept that there is the state
of all knowingness of enlightenment that
can be attained
I betcha
Shila Raley B's Jessie nom de la
language has
Sonia to be attitude recovery touch with
realities Norseman Giamatti Stalin and
he was equally is that lreland a source
of children to achieve mapache now tell
auntie you want Ava's machine attorney
Marilyn Monroe guru ah education on La
Cienega one on targeted child obesity I
wanted Chandra Wilson Carson Park a mess
up in degrees theta three terminology at
Lund toshiba is the jersey animal on a
watch has Justin Anderson Jersey g20 in
subjects it has one down chocolate
Tunku Zhi Cheng Zhi chakra songs the
Athenians the Carson chakra one a socio
wha-what a talk system bar to see change
awesome battles of indemnity are is
Roger synonyms Alana
ship arias Dondre personally but just
what what I just another lonely watch a
certain thirty guineas
what Argentina Samba Tom Java slumber
I'm generally thanking the my Yogi's
touchiness yogi security that alarm duty
Hashima pig isn't he gonna take some
them are Bhavana just some some some
xenophobic Susie Sampson dog emerges
what's another animal is what some
lawmakers had some certain goals I'm
sorry ma named papayas it's chicken is
what Sandra knows I'm sorry
then since that depends on knowing the
practices I shall explain the way of
Bodhisattvas so if one wants to attain
the state of Buddhahood one has to
practice the Dharma but then if one is a
little bit even it doesn't do it quite
right then then one will also not
accomplish it so one also has to know
how to practice the Dharma so it's not
enough to just be diligent in the
practice even if you're diligent if you
don't really know how to do the practice
correctly then it still will be mistaken
and might lead you astray
as it was that in the tool ornament of
liberation
if the Dharma is not practice
authentically then one's path is
mistaken or one will I can of go astray
from that path so one has to know the
Dharma practices how how they're
actually practiced so what has to know
the practices correctly and then the way
of Bodhisattvas well this term
Bodhisattvas it means the sons or the
children of the Buddha and the Buddha
had three kinds of Suns of body speech
and mind this his physical body son was
his actual physical son Rahula and then
his the sons of his speech speech sons
were the shravakas and
pratik 'as the heroes and solitary
realizers and his heart son's murder
Bodhisattvas and it is mainly those hard
sons who are the ones who really engage
in independent practice the Buddhist
teachings and so then it says I shall
explain the way of Bodhisattvas so this
here this line corresponds to the
commitment of completing the compass
composition to bring it to an end
without interruption so now in the
beginning
we have paid homage so to in order to
receive the blessings not encounter any
obstacles and so sometimes it's possible
that maybe something interrupts one's
translation or composition and then once
one turns away from it so this is the
commitment for that not to happen I'm
going to complete this until the end
peccaries media coverage or three
degrees on the thumbietot the enzyme
name be mono your thumb but when you're
doing normal of your data to each valium
that your lavash alright you know that
your thumbnails open you knew what a
salad or to attend your transit agency
was idiotic asana a to to be art to
cover what you talked about let us
elaborate what a Macomb tips were
started in mock combat it's a sordid
steve us you don't even like each other
one you do not own the veggies are not
ethical reason you're worried yes Ari
Nyiro Hansen yeah why is that true
person about it
surround Ahmad yani boutique is not by
instantly true the vehicle Malta cannot
cease its arias ingenuity what does it
in Concord
what city can I turn wrote in a book
with touch with chichi camera doesn't
roll that lalu and selling hot on this
lelou senators Schumer doll so DT must
stretch a semester larva circle lot of
Syrian her tones selling has long-range
quarantine the GTI on the Marty's me not
is shooting mallet this is yet hardened
attention mark shoot Arjun Appadurai
Omer caner for tomorrow Jules hello
sister
the Lord said in cotton rhombus notice
on bastante Thomas Sonya Thomas another
Sanjay - Sanjay Attila drew me a car was
headed my car was initialed Oh what am
bigger was sodium a pair of North Kissin
this is a source of cheese on the CIO
Marwa what L is that she divides it
hurts or nomicon by Jesus or not he was
that's hibachi eats that is that was
telling that on the ceiling
did you know kanji so everyone could say
cuz I'm shocked we are you a medication
optimality syndrome from does she do
things I see nearest Yount has to drop
sugimura static this is given to mother
you know why not that shook Nero's
Russia automatically for the Urawa what
in this is a children's only dangerous
and you reduce el agua around your
decoration mini which are both hands
over time will usually our many which
poisons mini bocce importance about
somewhat at about occupation remember
she was a miniature ambasa
random alone elytis analysis and lintel
wasn't an otter Valley Nevada
yonder question Bujji each other salmon
are jellyfish Edina the zjhon is
humorous but in the lentil Auslan
tomorrow many which dominant today bio
or what what is in generality what this
or give a trivial
property I was in a change or another
Sundays from the citizens
saanjh oh well that's it's not even
Sunday p.m. nachos or malice teach each
other through stories
Santa's not attached wasn't a bandaid on
15 News what a day Bundy Oh Edie balm an
endocrinology timber Nathan continue
tomorrow you can tear away
many many which on boards on the
entomology watching over a tomorrow
Miller or know what is a convenient
service or what do you know artistry
cubed is founded on which it's already a
star not so touchy
it's how much hardly what you don't see
them in education now Emily listen
German diary example example Center that
you can somewhat I'm with you mobile
units on coverton at least scheduled
ahmad al-hassan telomere example
sentence amateur watch a sensational
mature which is a bit director Jim but
Rama CSL Palma atop zip bom bom no
mothers are in pain mobile Chiquita what
did she just say don't know what autism
will do a picture on remote area which
wounded in economies and what was its
internal chatter Dorothy do you think
also the magical understand emotion is
something most important also CCGs equal
to true here showing Lowrance appears on
and really well it's um so velocity
concept or not equal to John promise on
see go for it
so the first verse is about difficulty
of finding a precious human body and
logic in some gun had said to find a
precious human body is extremely Amann
body is extremely difficult but among
the humans a precious human body with
the 18 freedoms and fortunes that is
extremely difficult so it may seem that
in this human world there are many human
beings we have about about 7 billion
being human beings in this world but
then of all these people only very few
actually possess a precious human body
according to what children someone had
said so it is very difficult to to find
and it's very difficult to encounter the
Dharma and to have an opportunity to
practice it there are so it says here
freedoms and fortunes so there are eight
unfree states and if one is born in any
of these eight and free states then one
has no opportunity no time no chance the
practice that arm at all so we are not
born in those and so those aids are
first
we're free of being born in the hell
room in the hell room the sentient
beings are tortured by heat and cold and
so much suffering that's they cannot
even conceive of the Dharma practice all
they can think of is becoming free
freeing themselves from that torture and
then there's the hungry spirits who are
tortured by hunger and thirst and then
there is the animals who are tortured by
being used and by ignorance so that
those are the first three then the force
is it's called barbarian and that is to
a kind of a borderland
and so that refers to someone who is
born in a place where the Buddha's
teachings have not spread number five is
a long-lived God
the gods are distracted by sense
pleasures they're the experience of a
pleasure of bliss is very strong there
is no experience of suffering at all so
Dhamma practice doesn't occur to them so
actually if we don't experience at least
some suffering we won't remember Dharma
practice we won't think of Dharma
practice only maybe at the time of death
we remember it so then the next one is
someone holding wrong views and to them
even if the Dharma is right there and
has spread it doesn't really help them
because they are obscured by wrong views
so that's number seven and number eight
is that being born at a time where the
poem has not appeared in the Dark Age so
there's two kinds of a just there's a
dark age and the light age and in a dark
age there is no Buddha so there is no
way to practice the Dharma at all unless
formally and so that is two there were
seven and then eight is to not have one
sense faculties complaint so that is an
impediment for example if one is deaf or
is mute and so that is an hindrance to
truly understanding the nature of
reality of things of the Dharma of
course it's still possible to practice
some virtue in that state but it's very
difficult it's a hindrance to really
understanding the nature of the Dharma
so these are the eight freedoms states
that we are free of and then there is
ten fortunes which are divided into two
groups
so there's five personal and five
outside of oneself or a circumstantial
so the five personal fortunes are
one is born as a human being and
secondly one is born in a central land
that is a place where the Buddha has
spread the Dharma has spread and the
third one is similar that one has one's
faculty sense faculties complete fourth
is is that one is free from very
negative activity for example it is said
someone who has committed any of the
five actions with immediate retribution
those very negative actions cannot
attain enlightenment in this lifetime so
that's number four and number five is
that one can one has the ability to
develop faith into the teachings so
these are the five personal fortunes and
then the five circumstantial fortunes
are first of all the Buddha has appeared
and secondly the Buddha also taught the
Dharma there are times where a Buddha
does appear but he doesn't teach food
our mom in our time the Buddha
Shakyamuni has appeared and he also
taught the Dharma so that second third
is that these teachings still remain
fourth is that there are followers of
those teachings who actually practice
them and fifth is that these followers
of teachings his community cares for one
another with loving-kindness so these
are Deen altogether the eighteen
freedoms and fortunes and possessing
them all means that one possesses a
precious human body and it's very
difficult to find these eighteen
qualities actually in some scriptures it
explains that there is different kinds
of human birth for example there is the
ordinary human birth and a strict and
some gun had said that's the vast
majority there is many ordinary human
beings and it's not so difficult to be
born as an ordinary human being in fact
one time and
milarepa mats the hunter combo doorjamb
he said to him internally speaking a
human birth is rare but when I look at
you it doesn't seem so rare so that is
because he did a lot of negative things
so that's not so rare done and then
there is a another one and that is the
kind of team like the very coarse kind
of um uncultivated human birth and those
who go around harming people and killing
people and making wars and even bringing
down their countries and societies and
so on so these are decks like extremely
negative forms of human birth and then
there is a precious human birth so now
in any case we all have these qualities
of a precious human birth and we are
here together with cart remember gem who
really is a Buddha
we have met him and we have an
opportunity to receive his Dharma
teachings and that's really an
incredible marriage so we have actually
all these perfect conditions for Tama
practice and now possessing all of these
conditions it's really important that we
might we make sure that we don't waste
this opportunity
don't be a goniometer Kuniko as you go
and you go Anka Urawa what appear did
you tell them about the Lord he not a
understand and do so in the charm
motorboating intimidated in the Egmore
wa sometimes easier is filling a tomato
gyrus appears e.g chances or another
others in evidence in a sunny do
you know here is tell you doubtful
Disney saga how have designs Orton turn
rototilling on statue not based on
challenge and so on
Yura what annoys the meters on story
there's a simultaneous don't it it so
they don't say molding tell some smile
Marisa what I wanted to New Jersey don't
inner today each other daughter your
trauma Santi unity has it from a Turkish
embassy Aurora or tell each other
what these are not some elusive illusion
wouldn't that be a good ass then
you cover Saracen Jonathan Jordan he
bashed in dougas Walton chibitortomon
hawala Steven Rome Statute on drops a
skateboarder cousin another move new
Italian cars energy tracker it may be
convenient to the tips of your mom who
is attached abuse from robbers for
October Estrada terrorism DJ met without
job security
madam eluted Sarge symbol it's jihad
hello Yuri what did drama solicit on
Dagobah Mysterio and Sin City needed 200
bicycle to achieve or did not hang him
at a young age in Ian's Luna that they
could change or traumas hamachi nominees
immunity was in which accorded to do not
when I am NOT a matter not said C&L say
Milton on the empathic oh from the
person my goddamn TV Indian SAT into
what congruence actually need some good
models then much one that is Sam's which
an uncomfortably Majid I only got some
was a done in yet yes Oklahoma that was
the unique us to do she was a robot what
to do some great city and was it not
answer this time has to change Alleluia
wounded reject hope you re on duty
what under in Atlanta Georgia to change
took the others what did your chance and
Trudy Ellison
that's dream cravat so don't be a
pig andre at the Torah what he contact
regenitive nutrition Jakarta blue
dodging Koreans olya traditions what
dodges round hanneke for Watson another
round tip watch introduction are
optimally and champion a continuity good
not what you do know you wanna do
champion learn to me you'll see some but
of just what I hit me I didn't even
attack logical is raw
she knows he knows he has a chocolate
Washington determinism but Archer levira
what is avoided some gentlemen control
approaches needn't and need intent to
irani by a certain agency Kadena SME
gelatin
around me but he wasn't he wasn't today
that one's for muscle trollop madam what
is it that you run me by his yes I'm
gone by Jessie that routine yeah go get
me buddy bonsai comets I'm not done with
her till it won't work that was some
consumption and SM combustion cheaper
etc Tom bought Revati
today had some budget tomato combat
system so that ambassador to Moscow well
doesn't reach er did you say she was in
particular where is what is almost ry
and so it is explained the difficulty of
finding a precious human body is
explained in terms of its causes numbers
and illustrations in terms of
illustrations or examples that show how
difficult it is to find the precious
human body there are many examples for
example just in brief there's one where
it says it is difficult to find a
precious human body as it is for a dry
bean to stick on the wall when you cast
it on the wall it's very highly unlikely
so it's in a similar way it's very
unlikely very difficult to find the
precious human body let me think about
the numbers it is said that there are as
many hell beings just in comparison um
there are as many held beings as there
are dust particles in this entire world
and there are as many hungry spirits as
there are snowflakes in a blizzard and
there are as many animals will gets
lesser there are as many animals as
there are like these particles I say
after you brew beer that something stays
ha recall that what this says yeah
particle Sarah mantis adamantium so as
there are particles in the sediment of
brewed beer and
there are as many gods in humans and
higher Ram beings combined as there are
particles like dust particles on a
single fingernail so they are very just
very few in comparison so if you really
think about it we can really make sense
of it for example if you pick up a rock
and you find an ant colony underneath it
they are probably more ants there than
there are people in a large country in
the world so we can see in terms of
numbers how rare it is to be born as a
human being and now in the poetry about
her I'd says this human birth is
extremely difficult to find and once you
have found it it must be used to
accomplish something meaningful that's
the most important because use this term
it can be used actually it's significant
because especially quality of human
birth is that we have freedom over what
we do we can do anything in this human
world and in other kinds of births we
cannot we don't have this freedom we
cannot do anything and that he want
so in this birth we have the freedom to
practice to do whatever we want and
therefore we have an opportunity to
practice to become liberated so that is
why this human birth is so precious but
then also it is lost very easily and
that is why it is so important to make
good use of one's time and not waste
one's time in this life and in general
even if you are not able to practice
like it says here meditate day and night
without distraction even if we are not
able to really practice day and night at
least we have to make sure that we use
this life in a meaningful way for
example there was the story about them
in the past
Kadampa geisha called geisha jingim and
he would never sleep at night and some
of his students would actually urge him
to sleep because they were worried he
was getting sick but he said that if I
think about how hard it is to find a
precious human body I feel there is no
time for sleeping so in his mind this
sense of precious human birth has really
a reason very powerful him and so now we
all have found such a precious human
birth and it's important to recognize
that and use it in the best possible way
and so here it says it is this great
ship of freedom and fortune
so some sorrow is like this vast ocean
and the human verse is like a ship that
helps you cross this ocean and it says
here to free yourself yourself and
others
so oneself and others not only oneself
also in the poet Aria Mataura it says
even if your ability to benefit others
is not strong you should always sustain
the wish to benefits them so and then if
you always sustain this wish of helping
them as much as you can then this wish
is altruistic which will increase and so
it says listen reflect and meditate day
and night without distraction with day
and night without distraction together
really means don't waste your time too
many less distractions in this life but
use your time to to listen reflect and
meditate upon them that are mom so it's
not enough to just listen to no Dharma
to just know about the Dharma and we
also that's a merit in itself but then
we also have to reflect on it and as
and most importantly we have to practice
it we have which is meditation it means
to practice the Dharma
in order to actualize like the true
nature of reality so this is the way of
a bodhisattva are you Elijah Don Manuel
Antonio when I just want a chance so
super you try another day yeah indeed
mom what the orichalcos and immortality
and obvious Omega what Thomas tell me
what it is it's a demo cursor one demo
some TG lady McGinnis
what is much each of them McGarry is
only attended short a chart if you teeny
Ancelotti that was my young son
telepathy and told us I'm not actually
came up with the aquifer you see the
data and drug American Korean or WA the
improvement of Miletus or the kongamato
somewhere they don't tell each other why
did you chant over it what the data so
the intonation of hope and how they
allowed me not even bountifully gooniqua
body you can read Sammy sock tada
something do you know you are Kirsten
she was I'm Jonah Yeshua nominal Swati
she lost museums on yeshiva oh my god on
day one authorities mmm oh yeah
meanwhile stable you must cultivate oh
my god how they were many minority there
are no so what is that in geopolitical
the demos later
Sonya you want what they moved more
about the energy challenge thank you for
it anybody called Jim said so 81 posted
emotional her it or demoted are your
margins it's another mushy vicuna logic
to them which are overdone or the demo
say what a courtesy title in the Omni
entities also the Chavan system much
room down Juanita
sudden today runs a check out this short
time she talked about domination town
from that sort of an adage it
bachelor wha let's be honest that's how
much younger tomorrow hungry did you
want to kumara travia's empty check them
the death comes each one come to us show
him the march on from the dad's empty
tomb satella
I don't talk about it jason is a long
way not a new Conroy actually your
mother
this also shows for today so someone on
the challenge he shone down what is
equal some G dunya Samara him I wrote
every combination the al-ahram which is
also mantras Dickinson was always
darkest in bad shape in country who
taught for sheer power and control keep
it on by his own 1.4 CB police yeah
don't bash even country is somebody's
even with the songs why
what Chandra called Danny kitchen sort
of know anybody any Chinese Eastern
Rivera what's organized sort of Latin
quality is almost in Danica so do you
know that song a lot to learn sometimes
it may be a comically collinear message
button don't wanna tell what's the
amoeba Sweden just sort of aha
we gotta cover shown shown all three
cheese on the source of the tourism Dora
what machine later on you cannot work
Majid elated or the movement are testimo
quick poem idea still on that page
boundaries you know Murray
saber you burn our children such as
Ileana tennis Amalia hungry shot in
Somalia Somalia will such a data malaria
coalition electronica see chamber such a
deal
paid upon our chamber Tarleton arugula's
malefic so satanic Indian artists of
Chandigarh guess to join the
government's but it's on us it's our
totally honest soul and so the years old
one
Carson was anna chiatti returned
dramatically as an anti sonic retro the
current that the atomic Erica Sorachi
Google much it's not you know Mary so
so the Korea truth but she are the sort
of not seem to do groceries was it
something that was passed on the door
don't pay apology very cool Samantha
it's a previous Bonaparte so the same
spawn muscle man 30g so I answer then
them the second verse and where he
speaks about the pending one's homeland
and so um normally it is the case the
reason why we say homeland is because
normally it is the case that in our
homeland we are likely to encounter them
like a lot of familiar people so we are
very likely to encounter people that we
develop an attachment to and an aversion
to people we like people we don't like
and so on
so that happens in your surrounding but
actually what it really refers to is
one's negative emotions of attachment
aversion and ignorance
Nagarjuna had said whatever you do with
attachment aversion and ignorance is
non-virtuous so normally we have an
attachment to our friends our close ones
and you want that nothing bad happens to
them and we want to help them and to
help them we work very hard and it's not
easy but then since after all this is
some saram it never happens the way we
want so we work very hard but still they
run into suffering all the time if you
really think about it this is really
what happens all the time and then on
the other hand when we see an enemy
someone let me don't like then it lasers
in us like fire hatred places in us like
fire and we can't even sleep at night we
keep thinking about this person
just hate in the bodhicaryavatara
um it also says that those whom develop
hatred will not find any peace will not
find any happiness or joy will not find
any stability and so the source of all
of that those afflictions is ignorance
and ignorance is an affliction that is
not so apparent but it's naturally
always present so through our practice
we must reduce these thoughts of
attachment and aversion so - so as to
achieve true and lasting peace and
happiness in our mind and in order to
really achieve that we have to face
inward we cannot face outward and try to
get rid of all of our enemies that will
simply be impossible we can't get rid of
all of those enemies on the outer level
and even if we try it so maybe even more
will come after all
so what the Buddha had said is that we
have to tame our own minds also the
bodhicaryavatara it says that if you
don't tame the hatred in your own mind
the outer enemies will only increase
there will be no end to our enemies so
you eliminate one and as next a second
one arises and they trust it just
becomes endless you will never get rid
of all your enemies so it's important to
face inward and look at the mind and
eliminate one's own afflictive emotions
of attachment and anger and so forth and
also as freshness at this morning we
need to understand that those so-called
enemies and friends do not actually
possess inherent
assistance now there was this quote by
chicken song and where he said when you
you realize the empty nature of France
they are bikinis and when you realize
that enemies are like friends then they
are darkest everyone is calm so this is
of course very difficult to accomplish
to always keep that in mind that there
was actually no difference between
enemies and friends but then we have to
do the best we can to not be to take
notice of what arises within our mind
all these afflictive emotions towards
people we like in people that we don't
like what actually arises in our mind of
course it's very difficult to instantly
just get rid of all these negative
emotions it's very difficult it requires
practice it won't just happen like that
it's very difficult but still we can at
least reduce them somewhat that already
is of great benefit and so it says we
forget what to adopt and what to avoid
so that is if we are obscured by them
these thoughts of attachment and
aversion we forget what we should do and
what we shouldn't do and then therefore
it says abandon your homeland and so
again there is no benefit in abandoning
your outer homeland in itself
so actually if you just abandon your
homeland that is in itself useless to be
honest with you because if you go
somewhere else again there come the
enemies and the friends that you're
attached to not people that you hate and
again the eight worldly concerns arise
and so on and that's also what Milarepa
has said if you know if you abandon the
homeland to like live in like the
mountains in the caves
again the stars of Fame and reputation
and so on
we'll follow you if you don't abandon
them from within and also chicken some
gun said something similar now we can
run away and go away and seclude
ourselves to a place of solitude but
then only and during the hardships of a
cold winter on a snowy mountain and the
heat of summer that will not that's not
the Buddhist religion that's not the
Buddha Dharma the Buddhist practice
Buddhist practice is to tame your own
mind from within and that means to
eliminate your own afflictive emotions
of attachment and anger and so on and
when you're able to do that that
actually is the abandoning of the after
homeland otherwise if you just abandon
your physical homeland wherever you go
you will always encounter enemies and
friends again
educate you Japan tour set a temporary
way started same stamina
georgina so much I wanna increase and so
one time when malaria by the
conversation was resumed parrot rumba
asked is it true that when you abandon
the homeland that he will also append on
the eight worldly concerns I mean the
rapist said that in general this is how
it is said but then really it is mainly
the mind if you do not resolve the
afflictions in your own mind temporarily
comb thoughts of attachment and anger
will arise again a union papaya tree was
in the Union Army
you mean Union bombing no more EMG
Chennai may be occasionally referred on
virtual initiative button but your
sister well that's all other Muslim
Jessie used by Union ballot this to our
table do Kamali
party Union but a panel then Yamato so
much much sooner agrees it's only just a
member they do that
member mirapanis along in my enemy
minuto my Mason was OTD Meza so the
Chava marches malinger is what any
mummies as oneself dancer on should
receive malice what's it mean
cha homeless mother if a movie me don't
be a fool
Trumbo Chilean on dibs I don't know she
Armand on TV similarly is all wrong what
I don't watch TV Mahlum Dave's or what
you think Adam Kamata so gets his own or
Carson dojo letís show vomit is Johnson
that ajusshi Ramos will show you what
Tom Povich hippo John Titor one
opportunity for sexuality down the
tombow sorry John this trouble
these shell these here
Schiphol gumbo topic a Maltese wasn't
Rosano goddammit a bashes dumbass is it
so easy to pop out what is the most
obvious at at saw buzzing no more say no
more something much worse than the movie
art emerges also an asset to our team
who owned a gun on the date and time and
our chicken to dethrone everybody what
does it mean if it's party state senator
Hodges
tell me me we get your knowledge
personally me because you're not person
you know so my colleague empirically
marvelous is Mallory was only maybe
number chocolate could the exhibits what
do you provide an honest Mutasa is
Minister for Lankan database views on
Iran regard on virtual initiatives what
are required on virtual initiation the
ricotta much of the old songs contain
Trotter police initiation or 10 degrees
but in Barcelona seized by Jocelyn
thermal Arizona Kirsten
keyboard a massive enormous origin unit
Neal Sampat Robbins
what game given our guess on the
throttle
Sawa now they'll receive more misawa
delicious all-natural zombats Albanese
nothing 1 me but another to me but I
still remember me but the routine on
need your samples albanese Cosway well
now you can understand and said you
shall you only boosts our time that
cherry jam is Sabaton shadow Dom Adama
Adama sod you in pain yeah but retro
variants in Lena need your samples
albany's books I know what about Zorba
is Nanami Jamie but I'm gonna tell Jamie
about the routine need your sample
Nanak Jayanti Pumbaa the Goulet Artyom
the 30-meter Sunday you're somebody
that's very conscious human body or
don't watch me until I'm back
what's under it huh well maybe anything
yeah I think I'm not entirely on Yamaji
DM by Dragic what is it can tow a
homebody
by the mid-1800s what nobody bothers you
nothing so in your name I'd you know why
I'm so the next and verse number 3 is
about abandoning negative companions and
so the negative companions and negative
places are abandoned
so it refers to a place or an
environment or people that they
associate with that that caused our
afflictive emotions of attachment and
anger to increase so a negative
environment is a place where we cannot
probably practice the Dharma and so that
is why we go to an isolated place in
order to eliminate our afflictive
emotions that is why we go sunburned but
nobody else an empty place and the
reason why this is the instruction often
is because in a desolated place where
there are no people it is very unlikely
that we will develop many thoughts of
attachments and a version because for
the most part our thoughts of attachment
and anger have to do with other people
so it's not so likely that we develop
attachment or anger towards like a wild
animal like a deer or so it happens with
people for the most part and so a
Milarepa made his prayer that no like me
this is like a long prayer which comes
later but he made his prayer of dying a
beggar in his cave and then also in the
old Kadamba tradition there are four
ways of like that kind of directing
one's attention and the first one is one
one must direct one's mind toward the
Dharma and then the Dharma must happy
must direct the Dharma towards like
straightforwardness
I'm also basically related to sitting up
and practicing and then one must direct
one's practice towards death and one
must direct one's death towards an empty
cave where one dies alone because in
such a place where you're by yourself it
is just less likely that you develop a
lot of thoughts of attachment and anger
so mostly why do we get attached and
angry is because of others dealing with
a lot of people and going around and in
our daily activities and we hear and see
things that trigger and negative
emotions and those eight worldly
concerns arise just naturally and so
when that environment is not present
then just naturally we will have fewer
afflictive emotions in our mind so
therefore it says here that in such a
place a team negative
disturbing emotions will gradually
decline and then attention to words she
naturally grows then you can focus on
virtuous practice marpa also said to me
the Reba had when you when you the place
that the empty place where there are no
human beings that is the market place
where you trade in samsara for nirvana
so in such a place the mind is clear and
therefore one's practice will develop
and then not this song by milarepa
he said that basically when may I died
at an old age may I not be with many
people may not know people be around me
when I die
may my sister not know anything about it
when I when I'm sick you mentioned
anything about it
may she not know about it and this would
complete or perfect and wishes of a yogi
when I die when I'm sick made of me
nobody kind of complaining next to me
and when I die made and no one could be
crying next to me that completes the
wishes of the Jochen and then after I
have died may my flesh become food for
the maggots and my joints become food
for the box and so on this would
complete the wishes of a yogi so to die
alone in an empty place in McCabe that
completes the wishes of the yogi so
that's also similar to this Kadampa and
prayer actually to practice alone in
solitude and of course the point of
going in solid into solitude is to
actually practice there is no benefit in
just executing yourself to an isolated
place if you don't practice because
that's something that like deer and
animals can do too they live in
isolation but the
necessarily practice so that's not the
point the point is not to live in
isolation the point is to practice and
to eliminate the afflictive emotions you
drove it here so to change a what about
Robin or the issuing trombone um do you
general I'm here intercede on his own
without warrants a matter what
denomination was a shelter wha Carson
table intimacy drop with hamachi deep
intimacy take with some mistakes at the
euro
what does it is a Samba so much he added
and is also Jason couchie Andrea Mayo
Morita modality is Harper one kitchen
poor chatting with Karzai method or
methods go on they did do Malcolm
temerity hungry
hundreds of wounded Sahana who the non
shut down the bouquet
Dragoon demoted inter watching boricua
watchable you do Carson's Larsen is in
you can get intimate RSS couldn't model
to do Columbia's have they already what
in the mythology or WA want to mark or
well of great wealth enjoyed some of
they don't say you're a well-known songs
are going into the ladies I love you
what so much ammonia not what she said
to do module did you charge that you
into what is some way are it matter what
the source also the gang needs Chandra
because it is you need to marry and
Amanda super a trombone really say in
Germany okay it's basically I was no
chance you're getting Damodar younger
one what is the time someone says a you
WA Niman which do i form a concert here
is the promenade children special
initiations are they not she re vo's
another tomatillo Graziano star Marcia
to summarize Chiana can answer
somebody's not so much information on
how could
Adams and Harris Oh Mitchell Carol Ann
Machado's to know somewhere among each
other for it when were on certain metals
I say the song on church in easily
change methods of somebody's gone
Oneonta culture that humble to Allah
pengelley my boots I can get it that's a
theory Tabuchi Kadim give charity such
altima Larry Fangio androgynous not
rolling cotton Maharaj easily potassium
Italia was bombs Mathias was wrong yay
Murat Madonna the math and today Jimmy's
Tim adagiamo national cheats we are
setting Gary's cartoon TV attitude so
new GTR so pancreas
what is only do theater
t be bad rope in order to do so what
about Robin you're defeated
Ross V Bernhard Eisel shoestring Doris
you know the artistic value John
magistral you are it so good magic he
knows are you married Corina Machado yes
Marie de ja vu g lombok ing in whaa yeah
this window has a large ones they loved
one toe touching on so big she regarded
you know mumbles I know that I didn't
see so Antonius want a copy that is a
chance he can don't Daniel HHS ij1
wanted to be hit in a penguin is movin
issue what just want what everyone
what's another key food today it's also
possible they did say chancy this was
chimpanzee was a case important one
billet aluminum chain rule
Lutron condoms and remove or loosen do I
get it nope you can hop up tomorrow
now here's you you think save up there
now it is the predominant I don't know
Dave Meadows
wonderful single chief appear in a few
days although they don't attend amore
which are actually the Regent on condoms
in Traverse personally attend I don't
wanna hear it it is in the kitchen for a
dismal Eliphas on your records emotion
chip on or condo samma sambuddhassa the
chip on or kill Osama the power ukasha
Sammy suppose a Jessamine scented top or
Akagi Sammy's also known as Molly
insomnia to teach Sammy's enzyme and she
wrote a nautical you teach others are
you Marie's new Buick one reason is that
when iam Tunisia no malice murder which
is a mr. Lowe homicide 200 inner truth
of the Chilean economy part which is
amis which are the other methods of this
not answer a long way are somewhat I say
to me buddy
I've cheated on me others yawning
salamander se llama Mambo you're gonna
teach the nomicon our colleague Jim did
occur on him at what synchronized
actually I'm a novice she don't
magically boom-boom
Salim question Rosie's jumped in as one
would see no margin but regionally
combat symbols inertia what ya doin mark
portion on kiddo
Adam dizziness or the salsa Kadam
kitchen is or the kilometers are WA you
know much if larger denominator you
under and in our society not improve us
sorry targets additional bujji's search
among the travelers kita still are those
you
yeah sure honest assumes the Tommo test
here coach at school this is a solve the
larger concern of the nearest
authorities some of us at using this on
animal origin see learning is what
certain the lowdown worries genetically
lot goat Cielo Thomason that's your
motto understand you're not even a cacao
does it mean wasn't a cheek with that
bloody bone I see a little incident
number for this versus on impermanence
and so normally we we don't really think
so so much about impermanence and we are
all aware of it but it is said in the
scriptures that there are linked form
and kind words of truth and that is
everything that is collected will be
scattered and everything that comes
together will separate and everything
that is born will die and everything
that is that is built will collapse so
for example we come together with our
friends and spouses and so on our loved
ones and in the end we will separate
from them and it's important to to have
that in mind
often when we speak about impermanence
and people think that we were just
talking about miserable things but
that's actually not the case at all
it's very helpful to one's mind actually
in fact there is in Tibet we have the
tradition that people naturally really
think about the four thoughts because
the Tibetan culture is very much
connected to the buddhadharma actually
so for example when they encounters
difficulties then they were just a but
things are impermanent and when they
encounter a problem then they will just
say that's just how it is of course it
is samsara things happen or if they
encounter some difficulties they say oh
this is karma so they have this
foundation of the four thoughts that
turn the mind to snatch early in their
culture and so that's really something
for us to think about actually if you
really think about impermanence well
then you will have much fewer
difficulties much less of an experience
of misery and suffering because you know
that everything is impermanent and we
are not just talking about deaths
actually everything else is impermanent
too for example the rich become poor or
you lose a very precious object the
thing that they like very much
impermanence happens all the time
I want them His Holiness it's unlimited
heard this story of when he went to a
hospital once he saw a young woman and
20 years old and she was on the verge of
death she was very ill and she was not a
Buddhist so she she said that I'm so
young I can't die I just can't accept
this dying is what old people do and why
do I have to die at such a young age she
she would not understand this at all and
this is holiness that is really what
happens if we don't think about
impermanence now we are Dharma
practitioners so it will be good for us
to at least think a bit about
impermanence how everything is
impermanent and actually when we really
think about it it will help us it will
keep us going and in our Dharma practice
there are many benefits in thinking
about impermanence
also when gababa left to meet Milarepa
and then his Kadamba case at that time
the occasion child he told him the one
one and only important instruction like
which is like my heart instruction is
always remember impermanence
there's no high instruction than that
and that's a really really good
instruction so here it says possessions
gained with effort will be left behind
and we will part from our companions so
no matter how much you have accumulated
how much money you have accumulated with
however much effort you will not be able
to bring with you even just a single
dollar also recently his Holiness the
Dalai Lama
had met with some business people and he
said that if you don't mind me telling
you but at the time of death if you have
all these things that you have
accumulated around you they will be
enough no benefit and what will be of
any benefit at that time it will be love
that's the only thing that will be of
any benefit when you die and so there is
very meaningful thing to save and that's
really most important it is love that we
want to bring with us we can't bring our
companions or money our wealth with us
so it says consciousness is a guest it
will leave the guest house of the body
milarepa also said it is the
consciousness is just like a bird who
comes to sit down on a tree branch you
don't know when it will take off and fly
off again so it so take is like resting
on that tree branch is like having this
human birth and we don't know when the
consciousness will leave again just like
this bird so the body is just like a
guesthouse when you stay in a hotel you
you don't move in there you just data
for a night and then you leave again so
it's just like that the body is
something that you believe and Milarepa
then also said that then there is
nothing that you can do when it when it
comes a time to time the rich cannot buy
their way out of
and if you're very courageous you cannot
you cannot stand up again and against
death and said I won't let you take me
you will die anyways or it doesn't even
if you're a very beautiful girl you
can't you can seduce death and even if
you're very like messy very humble and
timid you can't say I'm too timid hi to
die please spare me you won't be spared
a coward cannot run away so there is no
escape from from death that's what
milarepa said so it's very important to
always remember that because at the time
of death whatever we have accumulated
will not protect us the only thing that
will protect us is our practice so even
if a llama for example has thousands of
disciples and activities when it comes
time to die according to the car mom
then there's nothing that his monks for
example can do they can't lock him up in
some kind of castle that they lock and
he won't get sick there and he won't die
in there and surround that with an army
and so on I won't help anything
so the Catalan attorney says Kadam Burke
is a coordinator and so there was this
disciple he came to see him and he that
disciple made an offering to him and the
disciple said it was a benefactor and so
that disciple said that that benefactor
said that I am making this offering only
for this life don't butt in my next life
I'm all set because I will put on my
armor and I'll take my horse and I will
be all set for next life and the llama
says ok that's fine so you put on you
put on your you put on your arm I down
the armor and and you don't get sick
tried at first and so so then that's the
time
this benefactor started to begin to
realize a bit the nature of things and
so anyways um it says let go of all
worldly concerns letting go of worldly
concerns means to engage in practice and
even if we are not able to let go of all
of our worldly activities like Milarepa
that's very difficult to do but even if
we can't do that we should do the best
that we can to engage in practice not to
assume perjury
some Java and Java company gave me by
duty throwing a bomb i jacilla line is
all the way around so that they know
there's a neutral dance is parkour is
only China Karnataka similar if he is
already the combo valve and roaring
occurs arson to some GB trots on
Monticello cho sonjin yamato some Jade
electrodes Monroe is only what occasion
that you sp
Geronimo courage will you carry the
occasion the part I love you Khushi
Adagio Jagger is what I said I might get
a symbology for anteriores cousin and
that's a true do miniature to be Amish
ain't already nine yards accountability
do you miniature to be Armand and me I
didn't say give out of cheek water it
said that it should Judith envisioned
bacillus or didn't even touch with our
creature is what an accordion and taught
you to be a threesome Alex Kalahari
teachers don't monitor documentary to
Metallica what a suit among mothers
errors what did the to some debate was
Montrose allotted introducing certain
personal challenges Martin died
authority the Troy Alabama is what you
know that was by our discovery energy
cuz it's also save ice in water so unit
the priorities colleague ability you
know society moon Croatia Tina so so so
so far for control a teacher needed
shared on three from the other one
that we should have somebody in sedan
the next one number five is about a bad
company and so it says to me to give up
a bad company and that is mainly due to
the fact that same that they negatively
influence our practice before malaria
but parted from gababa
I mean Arriba told him that wherever you
go do not associate with those
companions who caused the increase of
the three poisons and so how it happens
is that for example so he said there is
some people who will tell you who will
ask you who is your llama and what's
your religion and that may lead towards
to bias thoughts and the resentment and
anger arises and some people will tell
you that you can't practice the Dharma
without anything you need to make you
need to first collect some things some
kind of some provisions and then you can
practice the Dharma and that this kind
of talk will cause in desire attachment
to increase them other people will tell
you now it's not the time to practice
you can practice later you can meditate
on emptiness later and so that this talk
will cause your ignorance to increase
and as they increase your laugh and your
compassion will decline and therefore
these are not companions that assist you
in your practice and of course in
reality is difficult to abandon certain
companions especially there are certain
people who love you very much and you
can't just abandon them but then they
can also become your enough support to
develop to increase your love and your
compassion in the Canadian anniversay
Jovian moon
the vasila name is on giving and the
anger is a forgiving charm denis.df
compared Anya what you give in Germany
your computer and your computer what is
a given data Posada watches general
energy called contra what a given
technology which of our theories on what
similarities hora debajo eternal terror
drove across a mojito know what the
Torah drove is Tibetan settlement I'm a
champion in general not equal it's not
I'm not a hood what is taraji Oh drop it
Austin's what in so that's something
convenient location Sanji Jim Dandy
young Andy Rinka and you supercar
security that's not in this city the
truth front which is an army yes so
doing it
tell me the truth engine so that we give
our control pair compared know Tariq
Luca jr. than the convenience of a
signal what is in receptor
and then number six it's about following
a true spiritual friend and a true
spiritual friend is someone that causes
your love and your compassion and you
practice to increase increase like the
waxing moon in such a teacher is said to
be more dear than your own body Milarepa
said when when faith devotion and
PureView increase or a companion that
causes faith the devotion and pure view
to increase is a companion that leads to
the attainment of liberation so pure
view also he really is actually related
to the love and compassion for all
sentient beings
and relying on such a spiritual friend
who causes these to increase leads to
the attainment of Buddhahood before the
Buddha Shakyamuni passed into nirvana
some of his Bodhisattva disciples asked
him after you have passed into Nirvana
what will happen to the Dharma and he
said the Buddha responded that later on
I will appear in the form of the
spiritual teacher and this is how the
Dharma will remain these spiritual
teachers will cause the virtuous minds
of the disciples to increase it will
lead them to liberation so a teacher who
guides you on that path is an authentic
teacher change agenda associative
algebra Jim Rogers Illinois remember
jumper of the cube or a hurricane
symbolism the nazi party emoji is
container that you naughty about dem
rubys
achieve a nobody cannot jungle you're at
an awesome job some of the USC hurry
sorry you can do simple job zum asajj it
was actually what generates a encouraged
my channel is extra memory region was i
to quadroon actually TM hetsig matee
indeed in Morocco Uganda Nigeria Sora
2010 Toyota truck job to be Murray's
land or you know something I'm not
supposed to consume a moment ocarinas
exams Agra
Kartik my resume as a drum near
Singapore to Cena so you don't I see
attend don't know why what did you do in
the shuttle matter also job Muhammad did
not triviality interrogation wasn't one
some other chair is hajeck Toledo
tourist was on smaller three what in the
associate your bunny memories teacher
colleges in on what is the kind of
judgment but it is such as you can do
some poor theories or theater
choose lambda with each other cause
you're a little shadow embroidery
Kasana so yeah I'm never compared so I
was you know did it's somewhat
disingenuous is what it do Ramanathan
origins engineers it's not charity not I
didn't a column of this Ummah jewelry
jump not succeed in ago numerology are
very near cuts in the first year but so
good
so okay formally teaching at the general
on dodging till it Hathaway are you
married mom in watch it comes with some
example don't worry Timberland oh wotty
tell me that Jeana I'm in 93 it sounds
like you are
Kirsten come on understand how could you
ask mother wahoo
good job Melissa Lee tell us it's
awesome visa Saudis just you actually
jobs you can do jobs you do pass on
Phyllis there's a little embody somebody
you are hideous
my emotions are on record someone drop
our master was in cordon and that's a
theme party temperature which is not
only important arise that you pass or
not in the fatty acids Arthur social
cutting Jose Malcolm is Anita don't
small second the Saudi Russia and those
jumpers or memory generally
Alaris in chemistry shakers and if a
teacher so hearty so much else actually
then number seven is refuge and that's
very important and kicked in some gun
said in the gum chick that the
difference between Buddhists and
non-buddhists is the refuge and of
course the kind of refuge we speak about
here is the refuge after three draws of
course other religion
also have a refuge but here he
specifically refers to the refuge of the
three jewels of Buddha Dharma and Sangha
and it says here so the worldly gods
themselves are imprisoned in samsara
so therefore since they cannot liberate
themselves they are not yet liberated
themselves they can also not raise
anyone else to liberation for example if
someone who can swim is drowning in
water and the other person who tries to
rescue them is also drowning in water
and you are both drowning but so you can
pull somebody out of water if you're
drowning yourself so in a similar way
the the worldly gods cannot really
protect you so then you might think that
but then when we do those you know
protector offering practices or strength
offerings not these actually these
offerings include wisdom beings and also
worldly beings of wisdom protectors and
worldly protectors and the way we regard
the worldly protectors is like friends
or like a servant and that is why we
have said in the beginning we have to
visualize ourselves as the Ihram day
team and then we ask them to perform
certain activities surin butcher had
said also yesterday that the protectors
are all an aspect of the enlightened
activities of the Buddha
so however they those worldly cause the
protectors cannot grant us true
protection on an ultimate level so the
only ultimate source of protection the
undeceiving source of refuge are the
buddha dharma and the sangha so the
buddha who is then a teacher or the
state of Buddhahood that we want to
attain the Dharma is the path and the
Sangha is the companion and they all
rely on each other
the ultimate refuge however is the
Buddha and that Dharma is what we
practice in order to come to the
State in them Oh Tara Tantra it says
that the single source of refuge is on
the ultimate level of the Buddha but
until we attain that state of Buddhahood
on the ultimate level we need to rely on
the three tools as our sources of refuge
so they transcend some Sauron anyone who
is within samsara
cannot protect us from suffering maybe
they can turn down some temporary
hindrances and conditions but they
cannot ultimately grant any protection
and so actually there is no better like
kind of hindrance from moving ceremony
or puja than the refuge and patron
Roberta would always say just recite the
refuge pray on and it is really very
beneficial if you have no doubts in it
there's also one story in the words of
my perfect teacher story about a thief
who tries to steal some things from a
monk and so he kind of sticks his hand
in the door and get to get the things
and then the monk grabs his hand and he
hits him with his staff and three times
the first time he says I take refuge in
the Buddha second time I take refuge in
the Dharma third time I take refuge in
the Sangha and then he was able to
escape and so he ran away to hide under
a bridge and so under bridge is usually
especially at night his worm the
nonhuman spirits comb and stain and so
at that time when he arrived there they
all escaped and didn't dare to go close
to him because this thief was in so much
pain that he was handle areas and all he
could really think of in his delirium
was what he just heard I take refuge in
the Buddha at the prefecture Lama in the
Sangha he didn't really mean it but he
just said it because that's all he could
remember so he would trust him he keeps
saying that
and so then once period they are to come
close and the
skim so what I what are you doing what
happened and so then then who are you
and he said I'm a thief and I was just
beaten and the Buddha must be
clairvoyant to only put like three kinds
of refuge in place if they would before
I would be dead by now
so we can see that even temporarily this
is the kind of protection that we
receive not only jumped over so Tara you
know matazano authority allotted lunch
through the thought if you go sure is
all right that isn't edited are a
boutique amnion furniture wah there'll
be a kitchen but it's also M not equal
to some 10 years yeah some no don t
remember I am NOT spiritual the only
unwanted which is impossible is what in
that event I need another solution whaa
ya so in essence now as it was said in
the altar a tantrum our ultimate source
of refuge to become liberated from
samsara is the Buddha but then to come
there
we need the path of the Dharma and we
also need the Sangha
so now we have to take a break the time
has come so that completes my
instructions but now we have received
these instructions from God remember gem
and the way he teaches his instructions
is really based on his own experience
and that's really very actually very
precious because whatever he says comes
from the knowledge that he has gained
from his own personal practice his own
personal experience and realization and
therefore it is of the greatest benefit
to listen to Rinpoche's teachings I'm
over and over again so now we take a
break
Oh Oh
[Music]
merit
Oh
[Music]
my
Oh
[Music]
I'm
the Granada lambda bar sometimes a
lovely bunch of artistic I'm Giorgio her
dreams of formalism etapa retirees
selling me the dormer kurma Silicon
Valley I said there's openings of the
line of the village of artisans they
tell me is also the dimensioning
innocence of the Christian religion same
g1z Rangi sarah new movie a new male
support a Kurosawa Sidney Chism a way
superior en toda la Sol de ESO la porte
de primo tiro a la la la la Poma GDG
Boca Culebra Oh senator da ba da da ba
da da da da da da nice also declares en
esta noche de corazon autonomy automate
aunt Regina Romita zone or de cassis a
resume or same day same resume resemble
a Sun Harvester
Angie's giada de estado de la gente esta
pasando data Ronson general a classical
mahogany
ecology professor now horrible worry
revelation concerning the Petrobras over
a minute for you during a metal sound
judgment was wrong you're a neat other
nice possibility rugged simple procedure
origin Darden demeanor mobile business
also should the zoo karate
Oh da-da-da-dah mercilessly Montgomery
told some well that are so much a
priority same you know
Collison we were there doctor said we
are a charm of October day Haqqani the
penises are young in Germany Gras party
or something so much tragedy over the
Lower Sackville a holiday by Charles
Hallum both on the more--much Emporium
ingenuity but the sale agency no man
that was it he didn't own religion
photons dance empty
Durga D'ass empty so tasty wrote on
dancin faretta account
hey hombre de no don't send Rizzo Kiera
Sharon Anatomy Allah that is or charges
the Maharaja throat or so much of the
tongue removed there are emergency
Rajasthan radhaji songs data summary now
logically origin vulnerable on the
ransom money
topic sacrament in other words child and
glory you mr. Tom so sorry she domina
I know you're sorry tons of sand hungry
she's our philosophy social the
horizontal delete our associative array
mmm
Natasha yep on IG report chuckling mmm
Tata what I do say no
tomorrow winds and marijuana it's a lot
from one hotel Ronnie but you know
you're a consulate on his own
of the numerous sources umbrella new
MOBA dated ah-ha Hornet any photography
around Japan Sergeant Richard Sullivan
not Sania Badnaam Nanavati support money
was dodgy Martin Jenny same acai around
parson from memory new model Arthur
brutally suddenly saw some Bharat
ordinary the colossal north on socialism
Watson just I do know from the title
digitally remastered aluminum
misaki-chan an apology Tom DeLay true
demonic aura soma
the table shall be there in a horizontal
they lose their charm glory
there is some ultimate end on a new more
the result you won't give words I'm a
friend swim I was speaking about stem
the stages of the path and so we spoke
about the difficulty of finding a
precious human body and then once we
found it then we also learn about its
impermanence and death and then when we
die we do not just disappear but there
are future lives
so then next we come to the reflection
on karma so as here on verse number
eight the Buddha thought that all the
unbearable suffering of the lower realms
is caused by wrongdoing therefore never
act wrongfully even at the cost of your
life this is the way of a bodhisattva
so where do those lower realms these
three lower realms
come from villain they arise from the
afflictive emotions of sentient beings
so afflictive mo
arise in the mind and one acts on them
with body and speech so one accumulates
carmem and according to whatever karma
is accumulated corresponding result will
ripen so here we reflect on the
suffering of the three lower realms and
then happiness the benefits of the
higher realms so if we don't really
think about this and learn about this it
will be very difficult to develop trust
in that now there's all sorts of
different views in this world you know
let me talk about where do these three
lower realms come from now first of all
to really understand that we need to
think first of all we need to understand
suffering so first we need to decide
that is there suffering or is there no
suffering otherwise we will have doubts
in our mind for example some people say
that it's all just mind so even if it's
the mind now whatever is appearing to
you whatever suffering circumstance now
we need to find out is it is my own self
projection or did in fact somebody else
creates that so the Buddha has had
taught that all the unbearable suffering
of the lower realms is caused by
wrongdoing is caused by our afflictive
emotions and the Karma the actions that
we have committed driven by these
afflictions so this term wrongdoing and
literally also implies something that
will fall back upon you so whatever you
send out will fall back upon you and
also if you practice virtue but will
fall back upon you is happiness if you
practice generosity and ethical
discipline and patience
then the results of the happiness in
Hiram's will ripen so all of these
actions are like the seeds of a flower
these are the causes and it all comes
from the self-grasping in the mind from
self-grasping arise the afflictive
emotions and from these afflictive
emotions and appear the lower realms
that are so difficult to bear so so
difficult to bear unbearable now even if
we in this life not this body if we just
experience just the slightest discomfort
or pain in our bodies or our minds that
already is unbearable for us so on the
other hand we say that all the lower
realms such as the mind so we need to
understand where this experience of
suffering that we do experience comes
from so it is actually the manifestation
of one's own karmic imprints within
one's own mind for example a person who
is very angry when they dream at night
then they will have dreams where
everyone appears as an enemy
so whatever imprint there is in the mind
will become projected basically it also
happened to myself for example when I
was young a boy I was this is yes this
kind of large bug insect in Tibet it is
still creature and I was really afraid
of that
and you know whenever I saw that I want
to kill it so I was so afraid of it that
every time I had a dream that always
came in my dream there was this this
creature again and not just one many
appeared and then I will see them all
over the place and I would be afraid so
that is this mind of aversion and the
force of this aversion leads to
hostility or hatred so it is such that
the hell Ram is the natural projection
of one's own hatred the hungry spirit
Ram is the
natural protection protection of one
screed orsten genus and the animal Ram
the natural projection of ignorance so
if you think about very carefully every
time an afflictive emotion arises you
recognize that what we just described
here is already this negative lower
realms already inherent within that
afflictive emotion we can see how its
nature appears when this afflictive
emotion arises it carries with it this
nature of Hell or hungry spirit and so
on and the root of all that is self
grasping so if you wonder if he'll
really exists and all of its suffering
you look at your dreams whatever imprint
there is in your mind will manifest in
your dream and what manifests then is an
actual experience for the time being so
that actually should clear away any
doubts on as to whether or not these
experiences exist like hell for a person
who doesn't have anger no hell can
appear the person is very loving to them
naturally the pure lens will appear so
whatever is in the mind will appear and
the three poisons will project the three
lower realms so if you see that in terms
of your dreams you will develop trust in
that so whatever is in the mind will
become projected as a person who is very
loving even now right now if somebody is
very loving and friendly everyone will
be a friend to them and then that will
also be reflected in their dreams they
will have pleasant dreams
people will appear as friends so it
really has to do with the habits that we
create in our minds that will then be
projected and so in this way recognize
the afflictive emotions one by one as
they arise
your mind according to the path of
individual liberation we need to abandon
these afflictions in the Bodhisattva
path they are transformed and in the
Vajrayana path they are practiced with
but in brief whatever path you follow
they all our methods for those
afflictions to not remain within the
mind and so again the root of these
afflictions is self-grasping on the
other hand if you cultivate love love is
the root of the six paramitas so when
you think about that and then that
should lead to some certainty that you
understand that if I allow these
afflictions to remain in my mind and
with a hundred percent certainty it will
lead to a certain corresponding result
if you gain certainty in that fact then
trust in karma will arise and then
whenever an afflictive emotion arises
you will instantly recognize that you
will recognize it before you act out on
it with your body and your speech
because you remember what you learned
from for example the scriptures for
example the bodhicaryavatara explains in
detail the suffering of the three lower
realms and Trust as it is explained in
those scriptures this is exactly how it
will actually beam will actually be
experienced in just that way and in fact
much worse than that
when we really think about an actual
experience so now when you think in this
way what arises what should arise is
fear of the afflictive emotions that are
given such atoms colleges miracle Jacobi
and whatever Muricy she don't eat daddy
daddy is something like she was on watch
currency or 30 something share dr. Dolin
simcha dr. Tuttle a demon of the whole
city
when you live in such a tragedy
Amata non-traditional is no more mr.
Bogle is dr. Laura Matauranga Maori yeah
the bhagavad Samira lady Hamish around
measurements were not a tourist average
same for all the same people certainly
in their decision our destiny since our
genes are talking about see no more
notation my tutorials harmony
Oh casaya terminology opener
didn't come tomorrow isn't important to
us on a comet or nor educated treated
are lazy body currently mmm
scientists or separates the somebody
needed dura photographer Manoj Joshi
Charles Hotel apology retracted the meat
were injured the tiny move on Morris oh
yes our signature oxygen
somebody initiates with in mortal Roger
per cylinder develop a democracy all
children you want to know something it
jurors Hamelin available so much what
tadhana American documents images
oh you know terawatt achievement in work
in Germany even half court artist in
matawan
the emotions to glory political foreign
tourists to humans were responsible
destination of the premium or the
thoughts will already imagine the media
Damali Madrid million unity start
enumerate body thus attitude of eternal
spiritual conservatory
missiles encounter a successor me the
total merits such a star daughter
Samantha the only do a crossover de
subasta de da was an initial coverage
does reverse of the average arrived in
Seoul virgins rubicund runs or varnish
Erin regarding the Matins Eurostar
something solid solid the earth dividual
something something sophomore from
cosmetology Callie Torres repair Prince
Rama you know miracle the result in
infertility that such a lady to say
potato Chicago Germany as a tapas or
something live at home their control
here there are rearranged original data
source Autobot you know those frontiers
Dutchman machine
mmm that fool our lunch their daughters
number those all the it opportunity
nobody donated Kaiba young to youngest
or motto is also didn't the other bunny
had or top I definitely senator just
about it
your Morehead so we need to reflect on
the like theme kind of the function or
the activity that what happens when this
afflictive emotion arises now for
example in this world there are some
places where there is a lot of wars and
conflict and now what is happening there
so you might think it's just those
people who fight with each other or
there's two countries who fight with
each other but it's actually not the
people or the country that fight with
each other if you think about it it's
actually is the afflictive emotion
within the mind which arises from
self-grasping first of all because of
attachment to the self you think I want
to be happy and I don't care what
happens to anyone else and then to
ensure your own happiness you get angry
and you get jealous and you act out on
that you accumulate Khammam and then
these places of war and fighting places
were many people with these similar
tendencies come together and so first
there is the previous carmem that leads
to that and second there is the
temporary condition for example you meet
a robber and so on in any case when it
ripens then people meet together in a
certain place and are bound to
experience suffering together now in
this world animals and humans live
together
animals for example their predominant
affliction is ignorance so when we think
about like how ignorance works and a
function of ignorance now we and the
essence of that is that one doesn't
understand karma one doesn't trust karma
and so on and then think about the
manifestation of hatred when there is no
hatred actually there is also no no
illness and so forth so actually the
real illness the real disease that we
have is hatred and all the afflictive
emotions the mind itself in its natural
state pure potent atrum is like
completely clean water and even though
that is the case even though your true
nature is actually what is what are by
nature put a nature if we do not
eliminate these temporary afflictive
emotions from the mind then for the time
being we are bound to experience
suffering and yet even though you suffer
temporarily in the meantime put a nature
itself is beyond birth and death and it
never ceases to be and eventually again
it will become liberated in a Maha mudra
and teachings it says even the darkness
of a thousand eons is cleared away in an
instant of seeing Buddha nature so
Buddha nature is always there and it can
never a decline even if you wonder in
the lower realms for a long time due to
the Karma accumulated once that karma
becomes purified again Buddha nature
emerges as it is and eventually it
attains enlightenment so here what is
verse reminds us of is karma and that
the relative bodhichitta is most
important to us
so we have said that according to the
Bodhisattva path we transformed the
afflictions with love and compassion
according to the path of individual
liberation in the context of the refuge
now for example we develop fear toward
our own suffering and therefore we
abandon the afflictive emotions when the
Bodhisattva path we transform them with
love and compassion
if strong love and compassion arise then
naturally the six afflictions become the
six parameters for example a mother
loves her child and therefore everything
becomes transformed into the nature of
love in the Vajrayana path we practice
with the afflictions if someone really
understands the view of the secret
mantra of the Raja Yanam if one if you
understand that the mind is Nandu or if
you understand the self and other are
inseparable then you will not cling so
much to the afflictive emotions that
arise so of course thoughts will arise
and there will arise thoughts of
clinging to the true existence of how
things appear to him so it is said that
to yoga in the thoughts appear in the
same way as before as for an ordinary
person but the difference lies in that
if you have recognized the view of
secret mantra of non-duality that even
though those thoughts of attachment and
anger and so on arise
you still know that self and other are
inseparable
you have gained stability in the view
and their form you will be able to
eliminate the afflictive emotion even
though it arises it is just like you do
see a TV show but you wouldn't really
get angry at a TV character because you
know it's it's not real so it would be
just similar to that but either way the
point of all the different levels of the
path is that we have to get rid of
the afflictive emotions in the
individual liberation we have to first
of all remember first of all we have to
remember the faults of the afflictions
over and over again because if we don't
we will not be able to get rid of them
so we have to remember those faults
again and again and then and then when
suffering arises then even though it is
unpleasant is it really something
negative actually it is not something
negative the root of all suffering in
this life are the afflictive emotions so
whatever it is whether it is an illness
or any kind of other difficulty that you
have to endure by enduring it you are
paying back your karmic debt and you're
purifying this karma and in a sense it
is just like undergoing a surgery and
necessary thing actually there's three
lower realms are like a hospital like a
a surgical facility where you do surgery
they're not necessarily something
negative and once it is completed the
surgery is completed in the end you will
be released again so it is just like
that so we we do have to experience
suffering in brief but we can see it
from this perspective and when it arises
then we remind ourselves to make an
effort in cultivating love and
compassion and cultivating patience
Milarepa had said that the practice
patience even at the cost of your life
the hatred leads to the unbearable
suffering of the lower realms or anger
when so how that happens is that when
when anger arises it is that it severs
the life force of liberation and how it
does that is what is really severed
what is destroyed when hatred arises is
the only cause of happiness that is love
when anger or jealousy arise it destroys
love so how does that happen
for example there is a couple who has
spent together many years and then one
day some one thing something happens and
one person gets jealous and then they
get angry and then they get so angry
that they are even able to kill the
person that they have loved so much for
all these years so all of that love has
become very intense hatred so this is
how the life force of liberation is cuts
room when anger arises because it
destroys your love all the love that you
have had is destroyed by it and this
love is your own cause of happiness
temporarily and also ultimately it is
destroyed by hatred and so this is what
we are also mainly introduced to when we
are taking their Bodhisattva vow here we
need to recognize the preciousness of
love and here we are told that even if
someone were to come and threaten to
kill you do not get angry but firmly
hold on to your Bodhisattva bow and so
in this way think about each of the
afflictive emotions that arise and the
related suffering that is related to
that affliction so ease each of those
afflictive emotions
think about their fault every time it
arises so this is how we train in a
context of the four thoughts that turn
the mind we we think about the suffering
of the three lower realms in particular
and especially you think of it in a
context of an afflictive emotion so the
moment an afflictive emotion arises
instantly you should recognize it as
like like a thief or a robber who is
somebody who is attacking or somebody a
criminal so the moment it arises this
kind of recognition must arise
than you Maharani
tell consignee in your toiletry the
world shop with the opportunity to watch
Issa watches were London do the humans
she will resemblance do is enjoy the
weekend show us yield you've ever
thought that the virus you guys were
calling Iraq Ronnie Java GG Salado or an
imaginary Gina coil on a new ocean tell
us over yonder masala a unique it's our
young you know what else did you say
Amazon bhasmasura
rocky Yabba Yabba Yabba romaso OTC
aromatic robbery Thomasina ronzonni
matado en más abajo no more tourism
da-da-da-da-da-da-da taking the
perishable in Armenia
they're approachable you're a doctor and
uh Belinda nabina muhammad were young
boy you're a jackhammer in the southern
communi
Kashia not sound awesome yeah but you
know what you soon yeah Lucas also you
know the major portable unit they
automatically talkin for some 15 years
Carl Kwan Dawson will lead them crazy in
a panic there you play the Lama
turquoise chairs on the Hogwarts Alicia
watches luthier
so what is a stock document understand
what a young you are to be loyal
ultimately the entire little pair
another one reported a target we are
Tito don't get my don't mind terribly
they wanna go yeah what you know mmm
you're calling your girl or a young on
these are questions the humid
they told the doctor whether there is
how much the athletes about URIs mom one
of them is WOM and so of course
sometimes we can't often help but do
something negative with our body and
speech so it won't happen that we will
not do anything wrong with our body and
speech but even if we do something wrong
out of habit and so forth it is said
that in general wrongdoing has no good
quality but if it had one then it would
be their potential to be purified
through confession that's the only
quality of wrongdoing so even though you
do commit wrong if you you should
recognize that and feel regret anything
that you do with body speech and mind
that causes harm toward other sentient
beings that causes them to suffer that
is violent towards them and so on
all of all of that sometimes we have no
choice but to do and we do it but not
just ourselves doing it sometimes we do
it or you ask somebody else to do it for
you so you in or you in a way incite
others to do it for example sometimes
people stare our problems between people
and so on by slandering them and so
forth even if it's very indirect in the
free scandal Sutra it mentions that
actually even rejoicing in someone's
misdeeds will lead you to obtain the
same misdeed so it says there that
whether you do it or you ask someone
else to do it so you incite someone to
do it or you even just rejoice in
someone else doing it that will lead to
you at the tree will lead to the
attainment of this same negative
beyond your own heart so what you should
do is that the moment an afflictive
emotion arises before you act out on it
before you accumulate comma recognize it
often and we can't help ourselves and we
do something wrong and when that happens
you should recognize that immediately
and feel regret and apologize for
example right away without allowing a
day to pass by and here it doesn't
actually matter whether or not the other
person accepts your apology
trust the apology itself is beneficial
and how is it beneficial now in this
world there's a lot of suffering
something there's a lot of suffering on
a larger scale in countries and people
have their own personal difficulties for
example there is some people who get
sick and then they do a medical
treatment and they get better or some
people encounter some financial
difficulties and then someone comes
along and helps them out or some people
are unemployed and then they find the
job so some people have a problem and
then something happens that helps them
out helps them become free from their
problem so why does that happen that is
the kindness of the three jewels it is
because in a previous life you have done
something wrong but due to the grace of
the three jewels
you know Karma and therefore you did
recognize that was wrong
so you recognized that you felt remorse
you confessed and even though the entire
misdeed is not completely purified
because you have confessed it you will
find some liberation later when it
ripens and the reason why it keeps
ripening anyways it's because we do
confess but then we do it again
and then we confess again let me do it
again and so forth so it goes on like
that and so that's why we because we do
it it ripens but because we confess
there is a way out when it dry pants for
example in my own case my own life was
already protected eight times in this
life in in this way again and again so
we can't avoid suffering but then if we
have confessed there will be some way
out and also in this way the negative
circumstance then is transformed into a
positive circumstance and it helps you
then to eliminate your own afflictive
emotions so it's very important that you
think about this again and again because
this is really the way into all kinds of
suffering in the future this is part of
the certain service only personal motto
doctor or doctors didn't like you
chuckles at the genome 2013 solitary in
Australia children the governor o'malley
reality
Tim Burton territory the jRD Tata
servant democratic in okay young Tony
opportunity partner South American
America security Lucas
monetary the truth NASA doctors are not
supported the complete soul in torture
very many wrong the 14th adult autism
system your vo2 distorting reporter male
sensational early territory Maurice
Rocket the are based on Drupal is under
German German of the geometry lay me the
Iranian the bottom as well Raymond
Cocteau Maris the best job Natalie how
to touch you my tiny Samara Nasim
sajageum sanctity of my own heart or
Vinita Jeremiah Allen Johnson with the
resources they are del maipo mera saaya
Buena medicina or
toss a solicitor this is Sebastian with
the adjournment our new owner 13 charger
charger
did not meet Alejandro awesome 13
consent a unitard Oh Derrick Abacha what
Donna Donna said the unitary
GP Rossum sons and brothers just on
general run a power and with the Java
Java data the certainty of our analysis
and a Java run in VR amateur artists our
killer don't eccentric cartographer
eternally dodging GB Road competitor
GB Rajasthan latina tell me today rates
Oh gelatin you can't element in the
completion time glory
did your attorney your attorney Brendan
sampling Croce dubnium Catholicism Emily
only in the
they do sancho sillustani somewhat
injecting makeup gentlemen 30 sergeants
in generality probably ontology of
Sanjay Khan Nakata to take advantage of
the awesome don't collect are good said
the ep0 was hundreds of crop engineer
from the watch Harbaugh chromium which
hasn't didn't send emojis now from Yahoo
wars are be still road based such
average dear Oklahoma children are
obtained knowledge about the warning was
on the just before Chuck Norris
there are possibilities of a harmony
Donna not OJ was a thinner plan deep in
Rose alert our Tongan Italian roberta
benigni
shipping or not worried
Nick Collison attack non young majority
the travel industry some adobo sazon
tolerate no I don't own material till
Jesus there is some agility demoted
popularity the human version there are
only certain support in theology
young general reportedly the facade dr.
Thornton Paula Murray do college
education is the child or a treaty not
all the dodging asteroids
so the next becomes a verse number nine
it says like a dewdrop on a blade of
grass to happiness after three worlds
vanishes in but an instant strive for
the supreme state of never changing
liberation this is the way of a
bodhisattva
so those three worlds are the three
worlds refers to on the surface above
and below but basically it really refers
to all some Sarek sentient beings and
the happiness pleasure that they
experience is contingent on their
encountering of the five sense objects
so when they encounter forms smells
taste touch and so on that leads to an
experience of bliss pleasure to know
samsaric beings and that is only it only
pertains to this very life it's all
about this life they think that I want
to be happy basically all of this comes
fully down to the samsaric his existence
comes down to this state of mind
I want to be happy in this life there's
only this life so then however in order
to really become happy often people run
after various pleasures constantly and
no matter how much they gain they never
feel content about it they never have
enough so because they never have enough
they have to work very hard day and
night if they don't work they don't have
any money if they have no money they
have no food to eat you have nothing to
buy it so I have to work very hard all
the time they make a great effort and
that effort is only in order to gain
those pleasures of this life only
and so they enjoy
five sense pleasures and actually so it
says here it is like a dew drop on a
blade of grass since there is no
contentment people like to have a lot of
things of any kind for example if they
prepare food there have to be many
different kinds of food on it on a table
and what actually if there's too much of
a variety of different foods that often
leads to all kinds of illness and so
then they they're very health conscious
and they try to avoid all kinds of food
and that leads to other kinds of illness
and so but actually even though we are
very conscious about our health what
really happens ultimately is really
determined by our Karma and we don't
have so much control over it and so even
if you're very unhealthy and if a very
unhealthy lifestyle still and you're
really fearless about anything when it's
the karma to die then there's many
people's many stories who died anyways
had an early age then one has to die or
for example if you make the greatest
effort to accomplish something of course
you have to do that we have to do things
to accomplish things but whether or not
we are successful in that also depends
on our Karma depends on whether or not
we have created the virtuous causes in
the past life like generosity or having
practiced patience if we do not possess
the merit from previous lives then even
if we try hard we will not accomplish
what we want to accomplish so of course
we need to make to some degree we need
to make an effort in our activities of
course but what are not they are
accomplished is really depending on our
karma and in a way the Buddha himself
had said in whatever we do we should not
fall into either of the two extremes so
we should not fall into the extreme of
self-indulgence and nor should we fall
into the extreme of self-mortification
but we should practice contentment and
enjoy things in measure in moderation
for example you really like to eat sweet
things so you eat it because you like it
but once you ate it
again you suffer because then it's gone
so this is them this is the kind of
happiness a pleasure that the pleasure
we experience in those three worlds of
samsara it is all impermanent it lacks
any essence and it all becomes a cause
for developing clinging attachment so
therefore it says strive for the supreme
state of never-changing liberation so
liberation what we need to be liberated
from the afflictive emotions in the mind
and not being liberated from them we
continue to be attached to anything the
five sense pleasures or people enemies
and friends and so on and the root of
all these afflictions that we develop is
self grasping this is constant thought
of I want this this our dad I'm on
everything and so when that is there
then naturally all the afflictive
emotions arise and these need to be
liberated and they are liberated through
the altruistic mind so someone with an
altruistic mind is a bodhisattva
it literally also means like hero a
courageous being the stronger your love
for others the greater also is your
courage the greater is your patience
with others also the greater is your
contentment with all kinds of sense
pleasures and the greater is your
ability to do things for others or to
give them things or to give them love or
to endure all kinds of hardships for
them so what must be liberated
self-grasping and the first step towards
that is cultivate an altruistic mind and
when you become liberated from
self-grasping then you truly are
liberated first in the temporary sense
by being liberated into these three
higher realms so that is the cause of
birth in the three higher realms for
example in the temporary sense there are
people who have survived world wars and
actually were completely unaffected by
all of that suffering and I still do not
experience much suffering in their
bodies or their minds so that's the
happiness temporary happiness of the
higher realms that comes from the
relative bodhichitta of love and
compassion that's the temporary
liberation and an ultimate limb once the
mind becomes really infused with
bodhichitta
you see the ultimate truth and you
attain the state of enlightenment
so therefore the altruistic mind is the
temporary benefit and the ultimate
happiness so in brief what we must
become liberated from is this
self-cherishing mind for example how
that looks like between two friends for
example if you have a companion then you
would think that I want him to be happy
as long as he's happy and and things
turned out well for him that's that's
enough that kind of state of mind that
is truly precious so this mind is very
precious you want to help that person
and actually that state of mind also
helps yourself the most and in that way
both of you will be happy together if
you really have a sincere wish to make
your companion happy then with a hundred
percent certainty your companion will be
happy he will feel that because
on the basis the mind is already one so
it is this is me that we have to become
liberated from and the first step into
that direction is to cultivate an
altruistic mind that's the path that we
need to walk in order to become
liberated temporarily into the three
higher realms and ultimately we attain
the state of enlightenment we attain the
state of no return or returned to
samsara so in this way beings are
liberated gradually Lord children some
gun had said keeping a single vowel
leads to the result of Nirvana so if you
just keep one single vowel for example
your entire life you keep the vow of not
engaging in sexual misconduct then
through this cause this will remain with
you and in all future lifetimes you will
not give up this vow until you attain
enlightenment there are actually many
stories about that in particular in the
Vinaya teachings and also campbell
Tenzing can tell you more about that
there is much more about that to be said
especially speaking about Karma we can
go into into great depths actually in
fact the teachings on Karma really are
the best of all the teachings so in
brief liberation here means that we need
to become liberated from self-grasping
the contents of the Central College so
tragic tour of the United States Angela
Martin / indecision
multiple responses volunteers
anticipatory 13 the tower mug reports
come on even Coughlin's without
apparently a battery something solid
fatality in the run teamö delete these
entities are multiple such a serious
thought as a imminent total social
structures in some turkey the security
polish still teen mother presented their
sons education my Marquis of the
hydrogen
commander Tom Hardy vegetarian Mary
Dowell recent high o Muhammad or Mario
Rizzotti Moncada novice engineer jet
owners owner Jerry Marotta so much
responsibility today treated modulated
responsibly just learn this antique
channel geometry dodging my patent or
abilities Oksana
three Dolly Parton or a thunk charge
similar to the dimension for Charlie the
signature the power sorry Nora
three sorry power Rajasthan gender power
from Jensen Delhi
oh what a series interpretive or digital
reporter most intimately churches from
their childhood listening to somebody
even wrote a song with her powers are
already a young and appear in print so
ron jeremy burtom pretty recently
generally yes auntie kya T around
regarded supporting our coverage
Mahone's GI o na concordant super team
Ari
so we need to walk the path on the basis
of love and to do that we first must
recognize even the slightest feeling of
love so what is even the slightest
feeling of love for example even little
animals have it and all beings with or
without a body have it
it's the love shared between a mother
and her child
so since we are born in samsara anyone
who was born in samsara and who
perceives that to Allah team has has
this relation to beings there is this
everyone has a mother and has
experienced its motherly love so that's
this love that we first need to identify
and the Buddha said that this is how we
develop love by first remembering the
kindness of our mothers and then we
think that since beginningless time in
samsara up until now all the time
continuously we have had a loving mother
so now in this lifetime we have a kind
mother but it's not only this mother but
all sentient beings have been our
mothers in previous lives beings with a
body without a body
all have been our mothers so you develop
love for all of them for example
nowadays we can see on TV different like
animal shows that show how animals also
treat each other with this love and
affection and in that moment they do
experience peace and and well-being
happiness so that's the love between a
mother and her child so this love must
be recognized first is love between a
mother and her child that is very
limited now and it needs to be increased
by recognizing
it's not just this mother but all beings
without exception have been my mother
since beginningless time in samsara and
actually from the ultimate perspective
our minds are one we are never really
separate and on the relative level all
beings have been our parents so that's
what the Buddha said he speaks about all
mother sentient beings so you bring that
to mind you think about the animals for
example and the suffering that they
experience and never separate from this
moment of love that you have recognized
and increase it apply various methods to
make it vast to increase it so that's
very important and so that's actually
the next verse now but thinking about
our mothers who have loved you since
beginningless time now this reminds us
of increasing our love and when love
increases self-grasping diminishes so
this term bodhichitta archonship SEM
means to purify self-grasping and to to
cultivate an altruistic mind and then
one becomes a bodhisattva which is what
is alpha is a hero the greater one's
altruistic mind the greater is also
one's courage in this and future lives
and the greatest hero really what I
himself because he had the courage to
say that I will care for sentient beings
for as long as samsara exists that is
great love and this is how it has to
become when one becomes the Bodhisattva
and so to become that to cultivate such
bodhichitta the Buddha said that we have
to first remember the kindness of our
mothers of others and then also develop
a wish to repay that kindness so for
that we first think about our parents
mainly so then when you think about it
when you cultivate love for others who
really is the kind
here you might think that I'm kind
because I'm I love them so I'm kind to
them but actually this love is your own
greatest benefit you're really
benefiting yourself the most with that
and they really are kind to you because
through them you were able to cultivate
love which benefits you the most so this
is how we must cultivate love by
remembering the kindness of others and
then wishing to repay that kindness
[Music]
Oh
on the
you everybody's on that thing chair on
my knee be a home for my my all I never
real for money we may hope all manually
my memmio